Hi friends in this video let us discuss about accessing
a string using a pointer
So using a character pointer we can access  a string.
So let us see an example. Here we have a
string str equal to Hello
Now we declare a character pointer ptr
Now we assign the base address of the string to the
Pointer. Recall that the name of the string holds the
base address of the string
So 1024 is stored in ptr so
ptr+0 points
the first character ptr+1
points to the second character ptr+2
points to the third character and so on.
Now let us see how to print the address of
each character using pointers
So see this example program. In main first we declare
the string str equal to Hello and now we declare
a character pointer ptr and an integer variable i
and now we assign the base address of
the string to ptr as we did just before. Now using
a for loop we print &str[i] or
address of str[i] equal to ptr+i
till we reach the null character
So in the first iteration we get &str[0]
equal to 1024. In second iteration we get &str[1]
equal to 1025
In the third iteration, we get &str[2]
equal to 1026
In fourth iteration, we get &str[3]
equal to 1027 and in fifth iteration we get &str[4]
equal to 1028. In sixth iteration
The condition fails since we have reached the null character
Now let us see how to print each character of
a string using pointers
We have to use value at operator * to access
the value stored in a particular memory location
Here we can access the first character H using
*(ptr+0). second character e using *(ptr+1)
We can access the third character l using
*(ptr+2) and fourth character l
using *(ptr+3) and fifth
character using *(ptr+4) and finally
the sixth character using *(ptr+5)
So consider the C programme to print each character in
in a string until we reach the null character
So we create the string str equal to Hello and
pointer ptr
And integer variable i and we assign the array
base address to ptr. Now in a for loop we print
each character. In each iteration
We print value at ptr+i which
is equivalent to ptr[i]. In the first iteration
str[zero] is printed which is *(ptr+0)
equal to H. In second iteration str[1]
is printed which is *(ptr+1)
equal to e and in third iteration str[2]
is printed which is *(ptr+2)
equal to l. In fourth
iteration str[3] is printed which is
*(ptr+3) equal to l. In fifth iteration
str[4] is printed which is *(ptr+4)
equal to o. In sixth iteration str[5]
equal to null character
So control comes out of the for loop and return
zero
Now let us see how to manipulate characters of a string
using pointers
Let's change the fourth character or the character at index 3
which is l to o
So see this programme here
we create the string, the pointer and the
integer variable. Now we print the string and we get
h e l l o printed and we assign the base address
of array to ptr
That is 1024
Now we set *(ptr+3)
that is fourth character to  'o'
The new string will be H e l o o and now
we print it and we get  h e l o o printed.
So this is how we can access or even modify
characters of a string using pointers.
So that's all and thank you for watching this video